Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Interpreter - used for interpreting the java files that are compiled by the Java Compiler. This is retrieved by using the "java" command.
Compiler - used for compiling the java files. This is retrieved by using the "javac" command.
Debugger - used for debugging the java files. This is retrieved by using the "jdb" command.
Disassembler - used for disassembling the Java class file. This is retrieved by using the "javap" command.
Documentation - used for code maintainability. This is retrieved by using the "javadoc" command.

What is IDE?
IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment, and it's a software application that allows one to write and debug Java programs.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, and NetBeans.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A java program will be written and them compiled by a Java Compiler. From there, it will turn it into a .class, which then goes through an interpreter.
This translates the java code into binary machine code. This is then outputted to the computer.

what is class?
A blueprint for creating objects.

What is object?
An entity that has state and behavior.

What is the entry point of an application?
It's the main method.

Why main is static?
Because it's called by the JVM(Java Virtual Machine) before any objects are made.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
You can only declare methods in an interface whereas for an abstract class, you can implement both non-abstract, and abstract methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No, you can't make an object from an interface and abstract class. To use it, you would have to instantiate one of their subclasses/implementers.

what is Access Specifier?
Public, private, and protected.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
OOP stands for Object Oriented Programming. The features are Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, and Polymorphism.
Abstraction - used for implementation hiding
Encapsulation - used for data hiding
Inheritance - used for code reusability.
Polymorphism - used for compile time (method overloading) and runtime (method overriding)

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
It stands for Application Program Interface, and it's a list of all classes that are part of the Java development kit (JDK).
I used Scanner, ArrayList, Array, LinkedList, Queue, HashMap, BufferedReader, FileReader, String.

Does java support multiple inheritance?
No

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method overloading enables a class to have two or more methods with the same name as long as their arguments are different,
and it happens at compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
It's a problem that takes place during the execution of a program that interrupts the normal flow of a program like when a number is divided by 0.
We handle it by using the try and catch keywords.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
It's used for memory management and it's used for variables, methods, nested classes, and blocks.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
It's used to specify its values are not to be changed.
Once the final variable is assigned, it can never be changed.
Once the method is declared final, you cannot override it.
Once a class is final, you cannot extend it.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable.
Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
To initialize Object.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Is a reference variable that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java?
A reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.

What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine

What version of java are you using?
1.8.0_77

What is JAR stand for ?
Java Archive

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time (method overloading) - the time period in which you are compiling the code.
Run time (method overriding) - the time period in which you run the piece of software.

What is heap?
It's a specialized tree-based data structure that satisfies the heap property:
if P is a parent node of C, then the key (the value) of node P is greater than the key of node C.

How java manage it's memory?
It manages its memory via garbage collection in which when the heap becomes full, the garbage is collected.
During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is immutable meaning that once an object is created, it can't be changed.
StringBuffer is mutable meaning that one can change the value of the object.
StringBuilder is the same as StringBuffer but it is not thread safe, thus making StringBuilder faster.

What is Singleton class?
It's used to control object creation, limiting the number of objects to only one.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization - a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization - the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
They'll both take the same amount of memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Because of the following:
Security: Parameters are typically represented as String in network connections, database connection urls, usernames/passwords etc.
If it were mutable, these parameters could be easily changed.
Synchronization and concurrency: Making String immutable automatically makes them thread safe thereby solving the synchronization issues.
Caching: When compiler optimizes your String objects, it sees that if two objects have same value (a="test", and b="test").
Thus, you need only one string object (for both a and b, these two will point to the same object).
Class loading: String is used as arguments for class loading.
If mutable, it could result in wrong class being loaded (because mutable objects change their state).

What is constructor chaining in Java?
The process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Serial - mainly designed for single-threaded environments (e.g. 32 bit or Windows) and for small heaps.
Parallel Garbage Collector - it uses multiple threads to scan through and compact the heap.

What is JIT stands for?
Just in time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java Heap Space - Java applications are only allowed to use a limited amount of memory. This limit is specified during application startup.
Garbage Collection - process of reclaiming the runtime unused memory automatically. In other words, it is a way to destroy the unused objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Stack memory is used to store local variables and function call while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.
